Skip to content
Emissions Reduction Alberta
Impact
Projects
Funding
About



Elevate energy performance, strengthen expertise, and secure ongoing savings
Emissions Reduction Alberta’s Strategic Energy Management for Industry (SEMI) program is designed to provide industrial and manufacturing facilities with knowledge, expertise, and training in energy management. The SEMI program will help you increase profitability by reducing energy costs, growing organizational skills and capacity building, and helping cover the cost of capital retrofits.

This $50 million program, with funding provided by the Government of Alberta and Natural Resources Canada (NRCan), will help the province’s industrial and manufacturing sectors increase competitiveness, improve energy efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The SEMI program ends on March 31, 2027. 


Why participate in SEMI?
Enrolling in the SEMI program will help you:

Enhance profitability by boosting your bottom line through strategic energy management programming, implementing an energy management information system, or investing in capital retrofits.
Lower operating costs and equipment longevity by cutting energy costs while extending the lifespan of your equipment.
Collaborate with industry peers to exchange ideas and best practices in energy management and create a thriving community of energy managers.
Is SEMI the right fit for my business?
The SEMI program is designed to support:

Industrial or manufacturing facilities owned or leased by the participant, located in Alberta. You must obtain permission from your landlord for a leased facility.
Eligible facilities may also include those involved in energy-intensive processes that physically or chemically transform materials or substances into new products.
Facilities that have been in operation for at least one year with fixed equipment, buildings, or complexes for extraction, production, or manufacturing.
Eligible industrial sectors defined by the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes.
11 – Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting
21 – Mining, quarrying, and oil and gas extraction
22 – Utilities
23 – Construction
31-32-33 – Manufacturing
48 – Transportation
56 – Administrative and support, waste management and remediation services
Incentive funding for your facility
SEMI covers up to 50% of eligible project costs for for-profit organizations and up to 100% of eligible project costs for not-for-profits and Indigenous organizations.

The following incentive amounts are available for your facility:

Conduct an Energy Assessment and Audit and receive up to $50,000 per facility.
Implement an Energy Management Information System and receive up to $50,000 for facilities consuming under 400,000 GJ annually, or up to $250,000 for those consuming more.
Participate in Strategic Energy Management training and access up to $100,000 worth of training per facility.
Invest in energy-efficient Capital Retrofit projects and receive up to $1,000,000 per facility.
How does SEMI work?
Start with a Facility Readiness Assessment (FRA)
All participants are required to first undergo a Facility Readiness Assessment (FRA) to help identify and recommend further eligible SEMI activities. The FRA will provide a detailed energy assessment that includes time series analysis, energy use disaggregation, energy modeling, and benchmarking of energy performance against industry standards.

The general FRA process will start with a kick-off meeting and will include a data collection checklist, an on-site assessment, a draft report for your review, a presentation, and a final report. The FRA requires input and active participation from you. 

What is the FRA?
By participating in the FRA, you will receive a report with the following from SEMI:

Analysis of your facility’s energy use
Relationship of energy use to relevant variables (e.g., production rates, operating hours)
Comparison of your facility’s energy performance relative to your expected performance, other facilities in your organization, industry metrics, and where possible your competitors
Assessment of controllable and uncontrollable energy use and energy variability analysis
Assessment of your energy management system
Recommendation on how to leverage SEMI aligned with your needs
The FRA report will be reviewed by a professional engineer and designed to provide you with a roadmap to participate in the other eligible activities without obligation.


Your Responsibilities for the FRA

In-Kind Contributions for the FRA
Choose your SEMI activity
SEMI will support industrial and manufacturing facilities through four activities:

Energy Assessments and Audits (EAA)
Energy Management Information Systems (EMIS)
Strategic Energy Management (SEM)
Capital Retrofits
Are you ready to get started?
Register on the SEMI portal.

Register/Login
Watch SEMI Webinar Recordings
Questions for support
Our dedicated contact centre is open Monday to Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Our team will work hard to get back to you within two business days. We’re happy to help you with any questions about the program or how to apply.

Email: semi@eralberta.ca | Toll-free: 1-844-407-0025

Supported by
The Government of Alberta committed up to $10 million for the Strategic Energy Management for Industry program through the Technology Innovation and Emissions Reduction (TIER) fund. The TIER regulation is Alberta’s industrial carbon pricing and emissions trading system. It helps industrial facilities find innovative ways to reduce emissions and invest in clean technology to stay competitive and save money.


Natural Resources Canada has provided $40 million in funding for the Strategic Energy Management for Industry Program through their Green Industrial Facilities and Manufacturing Program, which offers cost-shared financial support for a holistic and comprehensive suite of energy efficiency measures in Canada’s industrial sectors.


Ready to get started with SEMI?
Register on the SEMI portal.

Register/Login
Program Updates
Sign up for the SEMI Newsletter

Resources
SEMI Brochure
How to Participate
FRA-Application-Guide
FRA Terms and Conditions
Contractor Code of Conduct
Questions?
Visit our FAQ or Contact Us

Emissions Reduction Alberta
© 2024 Emissions Reduction Alberta (ERA)

#2503, 10088 102 Avenue NW
Edmonton, Alberta, T5J 2Z1
#3120, 715 5 Avenue SW
Calgary, Alberta, T2P 2X6

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
General Inquiries
Email: info@eralberta.ca 
Phone: 780-498-2068

Stay Updated
LinkedIn
YouTube
Twitter
Mail
ERA receives its funding from the Government of Alberta through the Technology Innovation Emissions  Reduction (TIER) Fund.


Emissions Reduction Alberta is a registered tradename of the Climate Change and Emissions Management (CCEMC) Corporation.

In the spirit of reconciliation, we have the privilege of living, working, and investing on traditional territories, which include Treaty 6, Treaty 7, and Treaty 8 Nations; Metis Nations (Region 3 and 4); Inuit; and all others who live and care for these lands. We are dedicated to promoting a culture of collaboration and meaningful engagement.

