Skip to content

Privacy Policy
Last revised: 1/21/2021

Enerva cares about your privacy and believes that it is your fundamental right to know what information is collected and how it is used. We use your information only for the purpose of improvement of your experience with our website and the overall service that we deliver.

Enerva Energy Solutions Inc. – Privacy Policy

Your privacy is very important to us! Enerva Energy Solutions Inc. (“we”) are committed to maintaining the accuracy, security and privacy of Personal Information in accordance with applicable Canadian privacy laws. This Privacy Policy applies to all Personal Information that we collect, use and disclose.

“Personal Information” is information about an identifiable individual or information that allows an individual to be identified. Personal Information does not include what is considered business contact information, such as your name, title, business address, telephone/fax number or business e-mail address. We may also collect aggregated information about you which does not identify you and which is not considered to be personal information.

By using this website or any of our information technology solutions, you are consenting to the contents of this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree, please do not use this website.

Summary

In this Privacy Policy, we describe:

what kinds of Personal Information we collect;

with which parties we share Personal Information: &

why we collect Personal Information

Links to external sources

At our discretion, we may have links to external websites. These websites have their own privacy policies, and we have no responsibility or liability for the content of those websites. However, we always welcome any relevant feedback about those websites to improve the experience of our users.

How We Obtain Your Consent

When you submit personal information to us, such as through this website, over the phone or by delivering physical information to us by mail or through other means, YOU AGREE THAT WE MAY COLLECT, USE AND DISCLOSE SUCH PERSONAL INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS PRIVACY POLICY AND AS PERMITTED OR REQUIRED BY LAW. Sometimes you will be asked to give your consent expressly (such as by checking a box or clicking on a web page). Other times we may obtain your consent implicitly by asking you to provide information with stated purposes but without any express statement of consent, such as when you respond to a survey. In those cases, your consent will be implied if you provide us with the requested information.

If you provide us, our third-party service providers or agents (“Our Service Providers”) with Personal Information of another individual, you represent to us that you have all necessary authority and/or have obtained all necessary consents from such person to enable us to collect, use and disclose such Personal Information for the purposes set forth in this Privacy Policy.

We also process Personal Information on behalf of third parties. In such circumstance, we receive Personal Information from such third party, and that third party would have obtained your consent to provide your Personal Information to us for processing. Such consent may state, for example, that Personal Information may be processed by third party service providers (such as Enerva Energy Solutions Inc.). We handle your Personal Information strictly in accordance with the terms of our agreement with such third party and with all applicable privacy laws.

Subject to legal and contractual requirements, you may refuse or withdraw your consent to certain of the identified purposes at any time by contacting Enerva Energy Solution Inc.’s Chief Privacy Officer at the contact information set out below. If you refuse or withdraw your consent, we may not be able to provide you with certain services or certain features or functions.

What Personal Information Do We Collect?

The types of Personal Information that we may collect include your name, home address, telephone number, personal e-mail address, date of birth, other contact information, information about energy-using technology and equipment and energy usage and environmental footprint of your home or business and the services you received. In some circumstances, we may ask for additional personal information such as details to create and secure an account, or to participate in a survey, or specific information in relation to a specific program or project.

Why Do We Collect Your Personal Information?

Generally, we collect, use and disclose Personal Information for the following purposes:

to provide services, products and programs to you, either directly or on behalf of a third party;
to provide customer service;
to assess, audit, evaluate, measure and verify data and information, including to protect ourselves and other third parties against error, fraud, theft and other illegal activity;
to develop, manage, update and verify our databases and information provided by third parties;
to understand and respond to the needs and preferences of, and to communicate with, customers, potential customers and website visitors;
to conduct surveys, contests, promotions, research and statistical analysis;
to provide a better website user experience;
for research and analysis to operate and to improve our programs, products, technologies, systems and services;
to contact you about current and future programs, services and products that may be of interest to you, and to assess your future needs;
for record-keeping and archival purposes;
for security purposes;
as permitted by, and to comply with, any legal or regulatory requirements or provisions; and
for any other purpose to which you consent.
We may from time to time collect other Personal Information or use the information that we hold for other purposes. If we do so, we will notify you and, as appropriate, obtain your consent.

To Whom do We Disclose Your Personal Information?

From time to time, we may disclose your Personal Information to:

our employees, Our Service Providers, including an organization or individual retained by us to perform functions on our behalf, such as data processing and off-site servers to store information. Where Personal Information is provided to a third party we ensure, through our contracts with them, that all Personal Information is kept secure. Our Service Providers are not authorized by us to use or disclose Personal Information except as necessary to perform services on our behalf or to comply with legal requirements;
where we are processing Personal Information on behalf of a third party, that third party;
a person who, in our reasonable judgement, is providing or seeking information as your agent; and
any third party or parties, where you consent to such disclosure or where disclosure is required or permitted by law.
How Do We Store and Protect Your Personal Information?

To help protect the confidentiality of your Personal Information, we use administrative, physical and technological safeguards appropriate to the sensitivity of your Personal Information to protect against unauthorized disclosure, use, alteration and destruction of the Personal Information in our possession. We operate secure data networks protected by industry standard firewall and password protection systems. We require all of Our Service Providers and agents who collect or process Personal Information on our behalf to provide security safeguards equivalent to those maintained by us.

Your Personal Information is stored in secured locations, on servers controlled by us or Our Service Providers and located in Canada.

We retain your information as long as it is required for the purposes identified when you provided the information or for any new purposes identified by us and consented to by you, and for any appropriate time thereafter including a sufficient time to permit you to ask any questions regarding its use. Certain information may be retained for longer periods for internal audit, regulatory or quality control purposes.

While every effort is made to ensure the security of your personal information, no method of transmitting and storing data is completely secure. Harm that may result to you as a result of the inadvertent disclosure or your information may include financial loss or identity theft.

Privacy and Our Website

Cookies – When an individual visitor accesses our website, we may use a browser feature called a ‘cookie’ to collect information such as the type of Internet browser and operating system the visitor uses, the domain name of the website from which the visitor came, date and duration of the visit, number of visits, average time spent on our website, pages viewed and number of cookies accumulated. A cookie is a small text file containing a unique identification number that identifies the visitor’s browser, but not necessarily the visitor, to our computers each time our website is visited. Unless a visitor specifically informs us, we will not know who the individual visitors are. This information is used to help us understand our website activity, and to monitor and improve the website.

In addition to the identified purposes described in our Privacy Policy, we may use this website information and share it with other organizations with whom we have a commercial relationship to measure the use of our website, to improve the functionality and content of the website and to facilitate usage by a visitor. You may set your browsers either to notify you when you receive a cookie or to refuse to accept cookies. However, if you refuse to accept cookies, you may not be able to use some of the features available on our website.

Online Communications – In order to provide our website visitors with a service or information, visitors may voluntarily submit Personal Information to us for purposes such as asking a question or obtaining information, and participating in contests and surveys. We may combine and use such Personal Information with other online and offline information we may have collected.

E-mail Communications – Occasionally, we may send marketing or promotional e-mail communications to you with information that may be useful, including information about our services and other third parties with whom we have a relationship. In this process, we may collect certain information such as the date/time you first opened our e-mail communications, the number of times you open our e-mail communications, the number of click-throughs per article, total click-through activity on the contents of our e-mail communications and compile generally the related statistics. We may combine and store any such information to manage and improve our e-mail communications to you. We will include instructions on how to unsubscribe and inform us of preferences if you decide you do not want to receive any future marketing or promotional e-mails from us.

Links – Our website may contain links to the websites of other independent individuals and organizations which are provided as a convenience only. These websites are governed by separate privacy policies, which we recommend you review. We do not endorse, we take no responsibility for, nor do we make any representations as to such linked third-party websites and their content. If you choose to visit such linked third-party websites, you do so solely at your own risk.

Internet Communication – We caution that Internet communications are vulnerable to interception, use, and/or alteration by person(s) other than the intended recipient. While we have implemented certain safeguards to reduce this risk, internet transmissions to and from us are still vulnerable. If you choose to communicate by the Internet, you do so at your sole risk.

How May You Obtain Access to Your Personal Information?

We will, upon written request, provide you access to your personal information and an opportunity to request that we update or correct your personal information. Upon written request, you may review any of the information that we have on file about you and you may also learn how we have used it and to whom we have disclosed it. This right is subject to certain exemptions under law such as when the information is subject to legal privilege. If access to your personal information is denied, we will notify you in writing, give reasons for the denial, and inform you of the recourses open to you.

Access requests should be sent to our Chief Privacy Officer using the contact information below.

Changes to the Privacy Policy

We may modify or supplement this Privacy Policy at any time, and to apply the changed policy and practices to all Personal Information that we hold. If we make a change to this Privacy Policy, we will post such change on our website and make such revised policy and changes available upon request to our Chief Privacy Officer. However, we will obtain the necessary consents required under applicable privacy laws if it seeks to collect, use or disclose your Personal Information for purposes other than those to which consent has been obtained unless otherwise required or permitted by law. We encourage you to review this Privacy Policy periodically.

Contacting Us

Enerva Energy Solutions Inc. has appointed Mayuran Srikantha as Chief Privacy Officer to oversee compliance with this Privacy Policy and applicable privacy laws. They may be contacted as follows:

Mayuran Srikantha

Chief Privacy Officer
Enerva Energy Solutions
1030 King Street West, Toronto, ON, M6K 0B4
Email: contact@enerva.ca Attention: Privacy
Phone: 416 803-0262

Who can I contact for further information?

If you have any questions or concerns about our privacy practices or your Personal Information that remain unresolved after contacting our Chief Privacy Officers, you may contact Canada’s Information and Privacy Commissioner at:

Information and Privacy Commissioner of Canada
30, Victoria Street
Gatineau, Quebec
K1A 1H3
Toll-free: 1-800-282-1376
Phone: (819) 994-5444
TTY: (819) 994-659

Copyright © Enerva Energy Solutions Inc. | All rights reserved

Go to Top